     XXXX   XXX  XX  X XX    XXXX  XXXXX XXXX    XXXX   XXX   XXX  XX  X TM
     XX  X XX  X XX  X XX    XX  X XX    XX  X   XX  X XX  X XX  X XX  X
     XX  X XX  X XX  X XX    XX  X XX    XX  X   XX  X XX  X XX    XX  X
     XXXX  XX  X XX  X XX    XX  X XXX   XXXX    XX  X XX  X  XXX  XXXXX
     XX  X XX  X XX  X XX    XX  X XX    XX  X   XX  X XXXXX     X XX  X
     XX  X XX  X XX  X XX    XX  X XX    XX  X   XX  X XX  X XX  X XX  X
     XXXX   XXX   XXX  XXXXX XXXX  XXXXX XX  X   XXXX  XX  X  XXX  XX  X


			    THE TI-86 VERSION

			programmed by Jimmy M†rdell



ABOUT BOULDERDASH
-----------------
BoulderDash was first made for the Atari 400/800, and ported to Commodore 64
the next year (1986). BoulderDash is a trademark of First Star Software Inc,
and was originally programmed by Peter Liepa. BoulderDash was converted
to several other systems, including MSX, Amiga, PC and lately Nintendo
and Gameboy. There are many clones available, which indicates that
BoulderDash was, and is, a fantasic game. And now you have it for your own
TI-86!

GAME OBJECTIVE
--------------
The objective of BoulderDash is to search throughout each CAVE and collect
as many Jewels in as short a time as possible. Once the indicated amount
of Jewels have been collected, the door to the mysterious escape tunnel is
revealed and you go to the next cave. Strategy and planning will help you
master the "physics" of BoulderDash. Boulders drop predictably enough, but
you and Rockford also have to block growing Amoebas, transform Butterflies,
outmanoeuvre Fireflies, and overcome other numerous obstacles.

CHANCES
-------
You start with 3 chances, Bouns tries are awarded after every 50 points.
A text to the right will tell you when you are awarded a bound try. A bonus
is also earned by completing a Playable intermission.

CAVES AND LEVELS
----------------
There are 16 caves, each comprising of several scrolling screens, numbered
A to P. Each cave, has 5 Difficulty Levels. To select a different cave,
press [Up] or [Down] in the menu screen. To select a different Difficulty
Level, press [Left] or [Right] in the menu screen. The greater the difficulty
the less time you have and the more Jewels you have to collect. You may choose
cave A, E, I or M, on Difficulty Levels 1-3. On Difficulty Levels 4 and 5, you
must start with CAVE A. After making a selection, press [Enter] or [2nd] to
begin the games.

HISCORE
-------
One hiscore position will be saved and stored inside the program. You enter
your initializes with the [Up] and [Down], change letter with [Left], [Right]
or [Enter] and return to the menu screen with [2nd] or [Exit].

CONTROL
-------
You move Rockford through the caves with the arrowkeys. You can also "reach
out" if you hold down [2nd] when moving. This is good when you're fetching
falling Jewels for example, or untrapping an enemy. If you die, or if you
have made a mistake so the cave isn't possible to solve, press [More] to
restart on the same cave. [Alpha] will pause the game and [Exit] quits
the game (if you have a highscore then, you will still get a chance to enter
your name).

ALL OBJECTS IN BOULDERDASH
--------------------------
Rockford

 This is you, a fellow that search through caves a collects jewels. You should
 beware falling things, butterflies and fireflies because they will kill you!

Dirt

 Not much to say. Exist to keep things from not falling down.

Boulder

 Boulders falls down if it's possible. They may also roll of another
 rounded object (boulder, jewels or brick wall) so watch out! You can also
 push boulders if you try to move in the same direction as the boulder is.
 There must be empty space behind the boulder though, and you'll succeed
 in 1 try of 4, so keep pushing until it moves!

Jewel

 These you should collect. They fall and acts like boulders, so you will get
 killed if you get one on top of your head!

Steel wall

 Surrounds the cave and can not be blasted through.

Brick wall

 Walls that can be blasted through. Acts like a rounded object, so boulders
 and jewele will roll of a brickwall if possible.

Magic wall

 Looks like a brick wall, but when a boulder or a jewel falls on it, the magic
 wall will be activated (the wall will animated so you can see when it's
 activated) and then every boulder that falls through will turn to a jewel
 and every jewel will turn to a boulder! If there aren't space under the
 magic wall, the boulder/jewel will disappear. After a time (depends on the
 level), the magic wall will expire, and nothing falls through but always
 disappear. Note that only falling boulders and jewels will transform; boulders
 and jewels that already sit on the wall will not fall through.

Firefly

 A nasty enemy that flies around the cave. Will always try to turn left if
 possible (will fly around in circles if possible). Explodes into space when
 Rockford or Amoeba are close (one step). May be used to blast through brick
 walls (drop a boulder or a jewel on them).

Butterfly

 Acts like fireflies except that they turn to the right instead, and when
 exploding they will create nine jewels!

Amoeba

 A creature that doesn't harm you, but will expand (slowly in the beginning,
 but after a while it grows much faster) and may enclose you or block your
 way. Can be blasted when a firefly or a butterfly touches it.

CAVE DESCRIPTIONS
-----------------
A. INTRO
Pick up jewels and exit before time is up.

B. ROOMS
Pick up jewels, but you must move boulders to get all jewels.

C. MAZE
Pick up jewels. You must get every jewel to exit.

D. BUTTERFLIES
Drop boulders on butterflies to create jewels.

E. GUARDS
The jewels are there for grapping, but they are guarded by the deadly
fireflies.

F. FIREFLY DENS
Each firefly is guarding a jewel.

G. AMOEBA
Surround the amoeba with boulders, so it can't grow anymore. Pick up
jewels that are created when it suffocates.

H. ENCHANTED WALL
Activate the enchanted wall and create as many jewels as you can.

I. GREED
You have to get a lot of jewels here, lucky there are so many.

J. TRACKS
Get the jewels, avoid the fireflies.

K. CROWD
You must move a lot of boulders around in some tight spaces.

L. WALLS
You must blast hrough walls to get at some of the jewels. Drop a boulder
on a firefly at the right time and place to do this.

M. APOCALYPSE
Bring the butterflies and amoeba together and watch the jewels fly.

N. ZIGZAG
Magically transform the butterflies into jewels, but don't waste any
boulders and watch out the fireflies.

O. TUNNEL
There is an enchanted wall at the bottom of the rock tunnel.

P. ENCHANTED BOXES
The top of each square room is an enchanted wall, but you'll have to blast
your way inside.

VERSION CHANGES
---------------
1.0  First TI-86 version. Simply a port from the ZShell version.
     More stuff (see future versions) will be added later.

KNOWN BUGS
----------
No real bug that I can think of. If you get 10 lives or more, it will look
strange on the screen before entering the cave.

Also, the control isn't that great. Quite often when you want to move
one single step to one direction, nothing happens when you press
the arrow key very fast, and if you hold it down, you may easily walk
two steps which might prove fatal.

FUTURE VERSIONS
---------------
* External cave sets
* Better control
* Some more tiles and supporting another level format
* BoulderDash Construction Kit (!?!?)

CREDITS
-------
PETER LIEPA and CHRIS GRAY for the original version and the great game idea!

FERNANDO HERRERA for creating all the cool caves (the caves are identical
to those in the original C64 version)

PETER BROADRIBB for his great BoulderDash homepage will all information I
needed (http://www.emedia.com.au/users/peterb/boulderdash/). Keep up the good
work!

THE #CALC-TI CREW for chatting :-)

ALL PEOPLE COMMENTING MY WORK for reporting bugs and comments about the game.

------------------------------------------------------ written 97-08-21 ----
Jimmy M†rdell

Email.: mja@algonet.se
WWW...: http://www.algonet.se/~mja
IRC...: Yarin

