nx86mm11 
-------- 
neXus 86 Mini-M 

Version 1.1 

Site layout functions 

Manual 

---------------------------------------------------------------- 

CONDITIONS OF USE 

1. neXus 86 Mini-M Version 1.1 is FREEWARE. 

2. neXus 86 Mini-M Version 1.1 is Copyright Dawson Engineering 1998. No
alteration of the program code by users is permitted. 

3. Copies of neXus 86 Mini-M Version 1.1 may be freely transmitted, unaltered in
any way, from one user to another; provided the transmitting user imposes upon
the receiving user these Conditions of Use, in full, unaltered and including
this condition; and that the receiving user undertakes to abide by these
Conditions of Use, in full, unaltered and including this condition. 

4. All users use neXus 86 Mini-M Version 1.1 entirely at their own risk. Dawson
Engineering will under no circumstances and in no jurisdiction be held liable
for loss or damage incurred through any error in the program code or manual. 


Please: 
Don't try to make money distributing this program. 
Don't remove or alter the appeal for donations to cystic fibrosis research at
the end of this document. 
If you post the program on a Web site, let Dawson Engineering know. 

---------------------------------------------------------------- 

Introduction 

neXus 86 Mini-M Version 1.1 is a software package running on the Texas
Instruments TI-86 calculator, designed to speed up and simplify setting-out work
by coordinates ("radial stakeout") using a total station or a theodolite and
tape. It includes the following functions: 

Station Load station 
Set out Calculate orientation bearing; set out points 
Survey Survey points 


Units 

neXus 86 Mini-M works in decimal units for lengths (display rounded to 2 or 3
decimals - see below) and degrees, minutes and seconds for bearings. 

To work in decimal units for lengths and centesimal (grads or gons) for
bearings, use neXus 86 Mini-G. 

To work in feet, inches and sixteenths and degrees, minutes and seconds, use
neXus 86 Mini-F. 


Loading the program 

We strongly recommend that neXus 86 Mini-M Version 1.1 is loaded using a Texas
Instruments Graph-Link cable, and not keyed by hand. 

To load the program on your TI-86 calculator, you will need: 

1. Texas Instruments TI-86 graphing calculator with TI-86 User's Manual 
2. TI Graph-Link connecting cable with TI manual and the appropriate TI
software. 
3. A PC running Windows or DOS or a Mac. 
4. The file NX86MM11.86G on your hard disk 

Install the Graph-Link software on the PC or Mac, and use it to download the
program file NX86MM11.86G to the TI-86 (refer to the TI Graph-Link manual and
Help file for assistance). This will copy the program NX86MM to the TI-86. 

You can also transfer the program from one TI-86 to another, using the link
cable. See Chapter 18 of the TI-86 User's Manual. 


Running the program 

Press PRGM. This brings up the TI-86's program menu. Select the program NX86MM
or the program A1 (which simply calls NX86MM, and is named so that it always
appears as the first item on the program menu) and press ENTER to run the
program. The main menu will appear: 

Set out Survey About 
1 2 3 
Station Quit 
0 (-) 

To call a function on the main menu, simply press the associated key. For
instance, to load a station's coordinates, call the "Station" function by
pressing 0. 


Station 

Calling "Station" brings up the menu: 

Station: 
1:Load 
2:Bounce 
3:Show and quit 

Input station coordinates directly using "Load". 

Use the "Bounce" option to load the coordinates of the last object point as the
new station. Use it in conjunction with the "Survey" option to compute traverse
legs. 

Use the "Show and quit" option to display the current station and return to the
main menu. 


Set out 

Input coordinates of the object point to calculate whole-circle bearing and
horizontal distance from the current station. 

Use "Set out" to calculate orientation bearings for opening backsights and
closing foresights, and intermediate shots for radial setting-out. 

To orient the instrument after setting up over the station and loading its
coordinates using "Station", calculate the bearing to the reference object using
"Set out", sight the reference object, and set the horizontal circle to the
calculated bearing. The instrument is now set to read whole-circle bearings
directly. 

The function runs in a loop, so as to compute successive bearing-and-distance
shots. Exit the program when it halts to display bearing and distance by
pressing PRGM. The program will return to the main menu. 


Survey 

Input observed whole-circle bearing and horizontal distance from the current
station to the object point to return coordinates of the object point. 

Bearings are input in grads. 

In site work, "Survey" is mostly used to establish grid-lines or building-lines
for construction. The procedure is: 
guess a point on a profile-board in approximately the right spot 
survey it using "Survey" 
inspect the coordinates returned to calculate the needed correction (usually
only one coordinate, East or North, is of interest) 
correct the point 
check the point using a second shot. 

Use it in conjunction with the "Bounce" option of the "Station" routine to
compute traverse legs. 

The function runs in a loop, so as to compute coordinates for successive object
points. Exit the program when it halts to display easting and northing by
pressing PRGM. The program will return to the main menu. 


About 

Displays software identification information, copyright notice, contact
information for Dawson Engineering, and condensed Conditions of Use. 


Quit 

Exits neXus 86 Mini-M and returns to the TI-86 home screen. 


General 

Prompts and outputs are preceded by the name of the variable assigned to them.
The prompt "K East?", for example, indicates that the East coordinate of the
current object point is stored in variable K. The values assigned to variables
are preserved, and can be used as data in the following iteration of the loop;
so keying "K+10" at the prompt will input an East coordinate 10m (or 10 ft)
greater than the previous one. 

The value "Q Check" reported on the bottom line of the screen after all survey
and set-out functions is the check distance between the last object point,
however obtained, and the current object point. The bearing between the last and
current points is computed and stored (in DD.MMSS format) in variable R, but not
displayed. This is the "missing line" calculation found in some textbooks. 

By default, neXus 86 Mini-M displays distances rounded to three decimals,
suitable for working in metres and millimetres (no internal rounding takes
place, however). To have the program display distances rounded to two decimals
(feet and hundredths, or metres and centimetres), alter the value of the flag in
the one-element list variable "ft" created by the program. On the TI-86 home
screen, to set 2 decimals key: {1}->ft. To reset 3 decimals, key: {0}->ft 


---------------------------------------------------------------- 

More about neXus 


neXus Mini-M versions are also available for the TI-83 and TI-85 calculators. 



If you like neXus Mini-M, but need more functionality, try neXus Lite (also
available for TI-83 and TI-85). It features: 

Options for working in local coordinate systems. This facility is very useful in
general setting-out work. In particular, it makes setting out skewed features a
breeze. 
Curves - circular curves, straights and transition spirals. Curves can be stored
by name, or concatenated to form a road alignment. 
Full printed manual to registered users. 

neXus Lite is FREEWARE for academic use (students and instructors) and SHAREWARE
for commercial use. 



neXus Pro for the TI-83, 85, and 86 calculators is currently under development
(August 1998). When completed it will offer many new features, including: 
Selectable angular units (dd.mmss; decimal degrees; grads/gons) 
Selectable rounding of distance displays (1 to 4 decimals) 
Height control, allowing full 3D work 
A useful alternative curve-by-survey method of pegging curves, better suited for
concrete and building work 
Curve-fitting routines, to derive standard neXus curve data from non-standard
data on drawings 
Free-station and bearing-intersection routines 
Enhanced options for working in local coordinate systems, including the ability
to store a job's gridline coordinates and call them up by name - set out a point
simply by specifying dimensions off a grid-line intersection. 
Quantities routines for areas and volumes 
Simple data-logging functions - surveying to and setting out from
down-/uploadable point files. 
Built-in stack-based calculators for doing arithmetic in 0-360 DD.MMSS angular
format and in FT.IN16 (feet-inches-sixteenths). 

When we release neXus Pro, upgrades to current registered users of neXus Lite
will be free. 


Packages 

We can also supply a contractor's "ready-to-go" package - a TI-86 calculator
loaded with neXus 86 Lite Version 2.1, the full printed manual and 1 hour of
customer support via email or snail-mail or phone (your call). Price to European
Union customers: £UK179 + VAT. Email or write Dawson Engineering for prices
outside the EU. 


Support services 

We can offer data-development for neXus 86 Lite Version 2.1 from supplied
drawings (CAD or paper), consultancy on site-based IT solutions, and training.
Email, write or phone Dawson Engineering. 


TI Dealers 

To track down dealers selling Texas Instruments hardware visit TI's Website: 

http://www.ti.com/calc/docs/dealers.htm (US and Canada) 
http://www.ti.com/calc/docs/world.htm (rest of the world) 

---------------------------------------------------------------- 

An appeal 

neXus 86 Mini-M is freeware. However, if you're using it on site, and find it
useful, we'd like you to consider making a donation to help research into cystic
fibrosis. 

What is cystic fibrosis? 

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an incurable inherited disorder, affecting mainly the
lungs and the digestive system. In the lungs, where the effects of the disease
are most devastating, CF causes increasingly severe respiratory problems. In the
digestive tract, CF often results in extreme difficulty in digesting adequate
nutrients from food. CF is a young persons' illness and is the most common
inherited, life-threatening disease in Ireland. Ireland has the highest
proportion of CF sufferers in the world. Progress is being made in medical
research into the treatment of CF, but continuing funding is vital for further
progress in the battle against the disease. 

We suggest an amount of £UK 15 or $US 25. Send it to one of the addresses below,
or to your national CF charity. Please indicate to the charity that you are a
neXus user. 

United Kingdom: 
Cystic Fibrosis Trust 
Alexandra House 
5 Blyth Road 
Bromley 
Kent BR1 3RS 

Republic of Ireland: 
Cystic Fibrosis Association of Ireland 
CF. House 
24 Lower Rathmines Road 
Dublin 6. 

United States: 
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation 
6931 Arlington Road, Second Floor 
Bethesda, MD 20814 

Canada: 
Canadian Cystic Fibrosis Foundation 
2221 Yonge Street 
Suite 601 
Toronto 
Ontario M4S 2B4 

Australia: 
Australian Cystic Fibrosis Association 
PO Box 254 
North Ryde 
NSW 2113 

New Zealand: 
Cystic Fibrosis Association of New Zealand 
PO Box 22776 
Christchurch 

France: 
Association Française de Lutte contre la Mucoviscidose 
76 rue Bobillot 
75013 PARIS 

Germany: 
Mukoviszidose e.V. 
Bendenweg 101 
D-53121 Bonn 
Fon +49 228 987 800. 

---------------------------------------------------------------- 

(c) Dawson Engineering 1998 

Stuart Dawson 
Dawson Engineering 

sd@dawson-eng.demon.co.uk 

http://www.dawson-eng.demon.co.uk/nexus 

49 Knockbracken Park 
Belfast BT6 0HL 
Northern Ireland 

+44 1232 640669 


Version: nexus 86 Mini-M Version 1.1 - Short manual version A 
Date: 22 Aug 98 

