guess
-----
Guess the number! v1.1
Copyright (C) 1999 Heald Corp., Ltd.
This program was finished on 7/21/1999
Programmer: Sean Heald
Platform: TI-86

THIS FILE IS BEST VIEWED IN NOTEPAD WITH WORD WRAP ON



1.    Introduction
2.    Installation
3.    Game play
4.    Trouble shooting
5.    Future versions
6.    Thank you's
7.    How to contact the programmer   






1. Introduction


	This is a little program in the "guess the number" family. It has been 
hibernating on my hard drive for quite some time now. I decided to open it up 
and perfect it so I can submit it to Ticalc.org. I started Guess The Number 
sometime in my freshmen year of high school, right around the time I got my ti-
86. But as I grew more accustomed to the basic language, I began working on 
bigger and better projects. One day, as I was browsing through all of my 86 
files on my computer, I fell upon this tiny called guess.86P. I opened the 
program and instantly remembered what it was. It was only half way finished so I 
put the finishing touches on it and added a cheat code (see below). So here it 
is, for your downloading pleasure.



2. Installation

	Extract the .ZIP file to a directory of your choice. Then open the 
Graphlink Software* and click Link>send on the menu bar. When the send files to 
86 window appears, go to the directory with the contents of the .ZIP file in it 
and send guess.86P to your calc. The installation should take no more than 
thirty seconds ( one minute if you have a slow computer). 

	*You must have the Graphlink Software and the TI Graphlink to use 	 
this program.


3. Game play

	After the program is properly installed on your calc, run guess.86P. The 
title screen should come up with the title of the game the copyright 
information. Press [ENTER]. The screen will clear and "Number:" will appear in 
the upper right corner. Input a number between 1 and 10,000. After you have 
chosen a number and pressed [ENTER] the program will display "Too high" or "Too 
low" on the next line. This is the status of your number compared to the number 
you are looking for. Continue choosing numbers between 1 and 10,000 until you 
finally get the one the program chose. Example:

Number: 5000
Too low
Number: 8000
Too high
Number: 6000
Too low
Number: 7500
You win!

         done


4. Trouble shooting

	As far as I know, the software in this zip file has no bugs and will work 
100% of the time. I perfected it on the TI-86 with ROM v1.3. If you don't know 
what ROM version you have on your TI-86, turn on your TI-86 and press 
[2nd]+[MODE]+[ALPHA]+[S]. Although I tested it with v1.3, I am confident that it 
will run on all versions of the TI-86. In the future, I hope to port the program 
to the 85 and the 83 and possibly the 82. 


5. Future versions

	This will probably be the only version of this game for awhile. It has no 
version number, unfortunately. 


6. Thank you's

	I would like to thank all my friends for encouraging me to submit this 
game, Bill Nagel for his famous ASE (I use ASE v1.3), and my teachers for boring 
me to death in class. 


7. How to contact the programmer

E-mail: big_ska@hotmail.com
Fax: 858-513-1491

Send all questions, comments, or hate mail to the e-mail address and/or fax 
number above. 



NOTE: If you input .29 during game play the program will end and display the 
mystery number.
