specrel
-------
SPECIAL RELATIVITY for the TI-86			23 July, 1998

by Donald O'Brien, Ph.D.
	ddobrien@okanagan.bc.ca

	Physics Department
	Okanagan University College
	Kelowna, B.C.
	CANADA

The program included below for the TI-86 covers all of the topics generally 
covered in a sophomore Physics course on Special Relativity apart from 
collisions.  I began writing the program in June, 1997, and completed the 
writing of it by November, 1997.  From November, 1997 to July, 1998, I have 
proofed, debugged and streamlined it until it has reached a state with which 
I am more or less satisfied.  It has attained a size (93, 781 bytes) such that 
further expansion could not be accommodated by the TI-86.  It was my original 
intention to include a broad range of collision problems, but when the program 
had reached approximately 70,000 bytes, I abandoned that hope and deleted a 
section already begun on collision problems.  If I adapt the program for the 
TI-89, I would like to incorporate collisions and other sections of the program
which have also been removed from the program.  It was also my intention to 
write a detailed manual describing the operation of the program.  However, I 
have decided not to do that.  The program is relatively easy to use and 
hopefully self explanatory, being entirely menu driven.  Users should 
experiment with the program and become familiar with what it can do.  You may 
modify it as you see fit to suit your own needs.  Given the size of the 
program, since it occupies most of the memory of a TI-86, it is probably most 
useful for those who (like me) own more than one TI-86.

PROCEDURE FOR DOWNLOADING THE PROGRAM TO A TI-86
1)	Using the "TI-Graph Link 86" software, UUDecode this file.
	Save the resulting two groups of program files (specrel1.86g, 
	specrel2.86g) in a directory on your hard drive.
2)	Using the "TI-Graph Link 86" software, ungroup separately each of those 
	two groups of program files (specrel1.86g, specrel2.86g) and save the 
	resulting program files in a directory on your hard drive.  You should 
	have obtained 245 program files.
3)	Download the 245 program files to your TI-86

EXECUTING THE SPECIAL RELATIVITY PROGRAM ON THE TI-86
1)	Push the PRGM key
2)	Push the F1 key (NAMES)
3)	Push the F1 key (i.e. execute the file named "ASRexe" which stands for 
	"special relativity execution file"; the first letter "A" in the filename
	ensures that this file appears first alphabetically in the list of 
	program files in the TI-86).
4)	Choose topics in the program using the menu keys F1 - F5.  The program 
	branches into deeper levels of choices of topics, reaching as much as 
	seven levels in some topics.  If in doubt, pressing the key F5 repeatedly
	will always bring you back to the main screen and out of the program.

NOTE
1)	The program generates a limited amount of variables.  The memory of the 
	TI-86 will not be exceeded if the entire program is run.  It is not 
	necessary to delete variables from the TI-86 in order to free memory to 
	execute the program.
2)	All input and output quantities are in SI units (i.e. Joules, kg, etc.), 
	except in a few instances when output is also expressed in MeV and MeV/c.
3)	All angles are in degrees except when specified in a few cases to be 
	radians.
4)	Sometimes the program appears to be idling when it is in fact computing 
	some variables or generating data for a graph.  Take note of the busy 
	indicator in the upper right-hand corner of the TI-86 screen.  If the 
	calculator is busy, wait for it to cease execution.
5)	It has been my intention to make the program error free.  However, such 
	a hope is probably rash.  If anybody encounters any errors, I would be 
	glad to hear about them.
6)	The program is divided into two parts, as indicated on the first (main) 
	screen of the program: "Lorentz transformation" and "Minkowski space".  
	This division is arbitrary in some cases, but useful on the whole for 
	dividing the material of special relativity.
7)	The program includes a broad range of problems frequently encountered in 
	courses on special relativity, including the "twin paradox".
8)	The program includes several sections on the theory of special 
	relativity.  They are meant to be complete and even to cover more topics 
	than a student might generally encounter in a sophomore Physics course on
	special relativity.  They are intended to be informative, sometimes 
	adding new insights not found in most textbooks on special relativity 
	(e.g. in the topics of "time reversal" and "causality").  Furthermore, 
	the program includes demo graphs and demo calculations intended to 
	amplify the theory sections.  Owing to the limited memory size of the 
	TI-86, these theory sections are sometimes densely packed with 
	information; however, the theory sections essentially contain all of the 
	information that a student needs to understand special relativity and to 
	do the problems.  However, students should be warned that this program 
	cannot replace the study and understanding of special relativity.  In 
	fact, using this program may make the study of special relativity more 
	demanding since a student has both to understand special relativity and 
	to learn the operation of the program.  However, if a student learns this
	program well in conjunction with a careful study of special relativity 
	out of a textbook, I feel that the student will gain a deeper 
	understanding of special relativity than from learning it only from a 
	textbook.  It should be reiterated that this program cannot provide an 
	easy means of avoiding the study of special relativity.
